---
id: index
title: Introduction
---

import Video from "@site/src/components/Video";

`carefree-portable` 📦️ aims to help you create portable (Python 🐍) projects of your codes / repo!

## Highlights

- **Portable**: The generated portable project can be used directly without any extra requirements.
  - For example, you can run a portable Python project even without Python installed!
- **Extensible**: You can easily extend the functionality of `carefree-portable` 📦️ by editing existing configurations, or adding brand new [`Block`](/docs/reference/design-philosophy#block) / [`presets`](/docs/reference/jsons#presets) without much effort.
  - See the [Stable Diffusion Web UI](https://github.com/carefree0910/carefree-portable/blob/main/examples/sd_webui) example on how we hijack the famous SD webui repo with a custom [`Block`](/docs/reference/design-philosophy#block) and make it portable out-of-the-box.
- **Integrable**: You can integrate `carefree-portable` 📦️ with (GitHub) CI to automatically generate a portable version of your project.
  - Basically, you only need to create a `cfport.json` file in the root directory of your project, and then run `cfport package` in your CI workflow (see [Usages](#usages) for more details).
  - [Here](https://github.com/carefree0910/carefree-portable/blob/main/.github/workflows/package.yml)'s an example of how `carefree-portable` 📦️ packages itself into a portable version in the GitHub CI workflow.

## Installation

`carefree-portable` 📦️ requires Python 3.8 or higher.

```bash
pip install carefree-portable
```

or

```bash
git clone https://github.com/carefree0910/carefree-portable.git
cd carefree-portable
pip install -e .
```

## Usages

:::info
Detailed usages can be found in the [CLI](/docs/user-guides/cli) section.
:::

Go to the root directory of your project first:

```bash
cd <path/to/your/project>
```

### Generate Config

:::info User Guides
* [configurations](/docs/user-guides/configurations)
:::

To generate a default config, run:

```bash
cfport config
```

This command will genearte a `cfport.json` file in the current directory. To make it work properly, you may need to edit the `python_requirements` field, which is a list of Python packages that your project depends on.

> - Don't forget to add your own project to this field as well!

### Packaging

After generating the config, you can package your project by running:

```bash
cfport package
```

### PyTorch

Since nowadays many fancy projects are built on top of `pytorch`, we provided a preset config for `pytorch` projects, which can be generated by:

```bash
cfport config --preset torch-2.1.0-cu118
# or
cfport config --preset torch-2.1.0-cpu
```

This will generate a `cfport.json` with a pre-defined `requirement` in the `python_requirements` field.

> You may notice that the pre-defined `requirement` starts with `$pip` instead of `pip`. This is important because it can tell `carefree-portable` 📦️ to use the correct `pip` executable when packaging your project.

## Portable `carefree-portable` 📦️

If you are Windows user, you may also download the `carefree-portable-win64.zip` from the assets of the latest [Releases](https://github.com/carefree0910/carefree-portable/releases). This zip file contains a portable version of `carefree-portable` 📦️ that can be used directly without any extra requirements - you can even run it without Python installed!

If you are using this portable version, just make sure to:
- `cd` into the unzipped `carefree-portable-win64` folder.
- Replace `cfport` with `.\run.bat` in the following commands.
- Replace `python` with `<path\to\portable\python>` in other python commands.
  - The portable `python` locates at `.\carefree-portable-win64\python_embeddables\python-3.10.11-embed-amd64\python`.

Here's a step by step guide on how to use the portable `carefree-portable` 📦️ to run the [Stable Diffusion Web UI](https://github.com/carefree0910/carefree-portable/blob/main/examples/sd_webui) example:

1. Download the `carefree-portable-win64.zip` from the assets of the latest [Releases](https://github.com/carefree0910/carefree-portable/releases).
2. Unzip the `carefree-portable-win64.zip` to a folder (let's say, `./carefree-portable-win64`), and `cd` into it.
3. Download the `run.py` from [here](https://github.com/carefree0910/carefree-portable/blob/main/examples/sd_webui/run.py), and put it into the unzipped folder (`./carefree-portable-win64`).
4. Run the following command, and wait until the webui pops up:

```bash
.\python_embeddables\python-3.10.11-embed-amd64\python run.py
```

5. After these steps, you'll obtain a portable version of the SD webui (locates at `./carefree-portable-win64/sd_webui_cfport`), which can be used directly without any extra requirements!
